So here we are in our NetBeans idea is the class mainframe on Java.
And so this class is also defined inside the package airline as all the classes have been defined inside
the package airline.
And we have imported the Abstract Window Toolkit package, which is used to develop graphical user interface
of any application, desktop based application.
Then there is a swing package which is also used to develop graphical user interface based application.
But it is basically advanced version of JWT.
Then we have imported a DOT event package which will help us to handle events.
Which will going to happen in this.
Page of our project.
Now there is a web defined public class mainframe which is extending the frame.
And inside it we have defined the main method.
Inside the main method, we have created the instance of mainframe class and status visibility as true
so that whenever it is.
This class will run.
Then it will.
It should show the current window.
For that, we have set the visibility as true.
Now inside the constructor of this mainframe class.
We have had it as airline reservation management system and called the Initialize method.
So inside the mainframe constructor, which is a non parameterized constructor, we have called the
Initialize method.
So let's have a look at what is Initialize method doing.
What is the implementation of initialize method.
So just below.
Mainframe constructor, we have defined the public void initialize.
Sorry, private void initialize method.
So it is of private type.
And why type methods.
It will not return anything.
Now, inside it we have defined the foreground color of the window as can.
So that is a color which is a.
More like a graphite color lighter than it that and setting the layout of windows as null default and
then we have initialized a new label.
Which does not have any name currently.
That is another label.
Like then we have set the icon for the label by using a new image icon object and using the class loader
dot get system resource which will load the image from the resource from the folder icon front.
JPG.
Here you can see inside the icon folder we have front or jpg.
So this image will be loaded with the help of class loader.
Don't get system resource.
Now we have set the label for the bond set the bounds for the label, X is zero, Y is zero, its width
is 19, 20 and its height is 990.
Adding the label to our j frame or window.
After that we have created another label that is airline management system.
Name or labeled as.
Air India welcomes you.
Then we have said the foreground color of this label as blue.
After that, we have set the font.
For that label that it's one type is.
The Homo font.
Style is plain and font size is 36.
Setting the bound for that label, it's x is 700.
Y is 60.
It's width.
Width will be 1000.
And height will be 55.
Now.
Inside the new label.
We have added this airline management system label.
So new label is inside the new label.
We have added with the airline management system.
After that, we have created a menu bar object labeled as menu bar.
And then we have.
Created.
Set the menu bar.
In our window.
After that, we have defined the menu.
Elements of the menu bar.
So the first menu element is a line system named as a line system.
And.
After that, we have set the foreground color of that menu, which is blue and adding that menu.
Element to our manual.
Now for the menu element, we have defined the menu items of the airline system.
So menu item will be first as flight info.
And after that we have added.
That menu item in our menu element airline system.
So inside the airline system, menu element, we will have a menu item as flight info.
Similarly, there is another menu item that is add customer detail and we have added that menu item
inside the menu element airline system.
There is another one.
Labelled as journey detail and added that also inside the airline system menu element.
Then there is another menu item which is labelled as payment detail and it has been added.
To our airline system.
A new element as well.
The last menu item of the airline system is cancellation.
And that is also been added into the airline system.
Let's remove this.
Now.
Now, inside the.
Menu.
We have defined another.
Menu element that is exit named as logout.
Exit dot set for ground color.
So here we have setting the foreground color of the menu as red and then there is a menu bar.
We are adding that menu element to our menu bar.
Now we have defined the menu item for the logout menu element labeled as logout again and adding that
to our menu element.
Now we have here defined the action.
Performed for every menu item.
So first we will look at the flight detail.
So flight details dot and action listener adding accent listener to that label and defining the void
action performed.
So which is taking argument of action event.
So if any event occurs on the flight detail menu item, then we will call the new flight info class.
So here is new flight info class.
So we will call this class if the flight info.
Flag detail.
Menu item.
Will be pressed or collected.
Then we have action performed method defined for the reservation details.
Similarly, it is taking the action event object as a inside the try block we have.
Called new ad customer.
So.
This will show.
The customer.
This will call the customer class and if any exception occur, it will print that exception also inside
the passenger detail.
We have called here.
The journey details.
Inside the action perform event and then if any exceptional occurred, it will handle that description
as well.
Now for the Sector Details, one label we have defined its action performance method taking the argument
of action event e inside the drive block, we have called payment details.
So it will print payment.
It will call payment detail class.
That's here.
Katz BLOCK will handle any exception.
If, of course.
Now there are last two.
Action performed method defined for the cancellation menu item.
Inside the action performed.
It is taking argument action event a inside which we have called a new cancel class.
So here is the cancel class.
That's it.
After that, we have defined the action list for the logout.
Which is.
Defining and taking the action event object.
For that we will set if the logout will be pressed and we will set the visibility of the current main
frame window as follows and make.
Move the control of the program back to the login windows.
We will call the login, create an instance of the login class and set the visibility of that login
as true.
At last we have set the size of the current window as 950 cross 1090.
This will be the size of this main frame window and setting the visibility of the window as true as
whenever we call it.
So the visibility must be true, so the window must be visible.
So this is all about the main frame or Java class.
Which will appear after we log in successfully in our program.
So let's have a look.
On the run or running of this mainframe.
So I'll be taking you from login class.
So let's move to the login class first and run this file.
I'll be running it.
So that's how it will appear.
You must have.
Shown it in.
Previous video as well.
I'll be writing the validate details that are admin.
And writing a password, which is one, two, three, four, five that we have.
Learned in our database and library section where we have created our database and inserted values in
our login table, we click on login here.
So this page will appear.
Now, this page is the output of mainframe page.
This page is the output of mainframe page inside which, as I told you, that had it as the airline
reservation system and inside which we have two menu elements, that is airline system and load.
So inside the airline system, there are five things flight info, head customer details, journey details
and payment details and cancellation.
And in logout we have logout.
So let's log on from here.
In the next video, we will learn about adding customer details.
After that flight info and similarly for the next ones.
So if I click on logout, it will move us back to the login page.
And now let's close this one.
Also, we will keep on cancel.
So.
That's from the running of this mainframe page.